---
title: Compressors
path: /equipment/nko/compressor/
description:
keywords: []
lang: en
---

![Compressor](./comp-01.jpg)

Of the whole variety of compressor equipment, produced currently by the
world's leading manufacturers, JSC PKF "PromHim-Sfera" is ready to make
the selection of equipment, which will suit for the specific task of
supplying our customer with compressed gas. With an extensive base of
suppliers from Germany, France, Italy, USA, we have a possibility to
supply various types of compressors: piston-type and centrifugal,
helical, diaphragm, cammed and other types of compressors.

For optimal selection of the compressor and its drive, which provides
the most efficient compressed gas feed it is necessary to know at least
several basic parameters:

### Compressible gas composition

Usually variations of compressible gas composition occur in a relatively
narrow range, which has no effect on the performance of the compressor,
however, in case of predictable significant changes of gas parameters it
is necessary to specify the limits of variations of the composition.

### Compressed gas pressure and the limits of its changes

For reliable, efficient and safe operation of the compressor there must
be a precise definition of the pressure oscillation limits, because for
example a significant inlet pressure boost in the compressor with a
fixed pressure boost degree may negatively affect the performance of the
compressor.

### Gas flow rate and its oscillation limits

Depending on the type of compressor there are various limits of
efficient and safe compressed gas flow rate control. It is also
necessary to know both maximum and minimum gas pressure on compressor
suction line, what will allow to select the compressor providing both
the ability to operate at the minimum pressure on the suction line and
the ability to operate safely at the maximum pressure.

### Presence of impurities in the inlet and compressed gas

The impurities entering the suction line of the compressor, for example
such as drip moisture or other liquids and also dust have a negative
impact on the majority of compressors. Depending on the type of
compressor and also the requirements for the quality of the outlet air,
selection of the suction line separator may be required. Depending on
the requirements to the quality of the compressed gas, an outlet gas
treatment system may be selected, such as drying system, oil separator
or the system of catalytic decomposition of organic compounds
(compressor oil). Also the compressor type will be defined (dry
compression, oil-filled, water packed, etc.).

### Equipment operation mode

Both the frequency and duration of equipment operation period are
affected by work shifts at the facility and special characteristics of
technological process. Therefore it is necessary to know exactly at
least number of equipment start-ups (per day, per month), minimum and
maximum required time, which compressor must operate until it stops.

### Service times

Equipment operating mode, as well as facility operational mode, in
particular the periodicity and terms of scheduled maintenance
performing, usually determine the types of compressors that may be
considered for use at the facility.

### Preferable type of compressor

Taking into account that the most complete filling of the questionnaire
allows to select the most efficient type of equipment which provides the
required reliability, the type of compressor should be specified for the
case where there was already some experience of operating compressors at
the facility. For example, if there are trained professionals for
service maintenance of piston, centrifugal or helical compressors. Also,
if, for example, the existing operational staff is too busy, it is
possible to specify the types of compressors that require a minimum
number of man-hours per year for its services.

### Compressor installation site specifications

Depending on climate conditions and category of equipment location area
in respect to explosion hazard, the compressor type and allowable drive
type will be specified. Geophysical, including climate parameters, will
determine not only requirements to the lubrication system, cooling
system and compressor footing, but also the container design. Container
supply has a number of significant advantages along with disadvantages.
In this connection it is necessary to consider the requirements to the
installation area, climate, operation mode to make a grounded decision
on necessity and optimality of container supply.

### Compressor drive type

Different types of drives can be used depending on available fuel and
energy resources (FER), requirements for compressor reliability and
frequency of service maintenance. For example, the most efficient drives
for compressors with a power capacity of 300 - 1000 kW or more are gas
reciprocating engines. Based on the conditions of minimization of
service, the most preferable are the electric ones. For a number of
operating conditions the most optimal are gas-turbine drives or steam
turbines. For optimal selection of drive for a powerful compressor, it
is reqired to provide data on the reliability of power supply of the
facility, presence of fuel limits and plans for the enterprise
development within next 5 years.

### Engineering

Due to the specificity of the above-mentioned requirements for the
compressors installation, it is necessary to involve an organization,
which specialists have an experience in optimizing of compressor systems
and the compressed gas feed mains for the optimal choice of equipment,
which will be installed. This especially actual in case of equipment
installation at an existing facility, because some changes in the
technological chain are almost always made in the process of the
facility operation, which significantly change losses during
transportation, demanded quality, volumes and modes of compressed gases
consumption. Local changes made to the gas transmission main pipeline
are also has an influence to efficiency of compressed gas supply to the
consumers. It is necessary to take into account the equipment operation
modes, as well as to consider the possibility of their changes in order
to optimize the application of capacity of the compressor equipment.

JSC PKF "PromHim-Sfera" has specialized technical department, which
carries out consulting services concerning selection and replacement of
compressors, design execution and embedding of compressor equipment at
enterprises in the Russian Federation. The company also works on the
projects of modernization of compressor equipment and supply of
components for compressors.
